# Have I hit a wall?

27th of August, 2015.

I wouldn't call it writers block, but I'm some kind of stuck.

I've been putting in some hours, a few a week, just like I've done with hobby projects, but it gets waisted evaluating what to do next. Should I finish this, continue that, or start something new, all within this one single project.

Am I sick of it? No. I still have a vague goal I want to get, and if I were to abandon this project, I would rather put in just a little but more work just to have it in a little bit better state than this so it can cool down and serve as an example of the kind of work I'm able to put together.

The goal was to have a programming language without reserved words, and see what it would feel like to code in it. I haven't been able to get something like this feeling, and by _having_ a language I mean it would be stable enough to write a program in it using a rich enough runtime, build/run/debug it, without having to _'switch hats'_ and delve into the construction of the language first to tweak this or that...

Start with classes and objects, or limit the first version to do what C does, first? Or design to have generics from the start? And also lambda's are something people will expect from any newcomer. What about that REPL? Damn, I chose to have code start with declarative syntax first and imperative blocks deeper. Is that the right choice? Should I let it depend on the execution platform I'm about to go with. As soon as I can decide...

But LLVM is so compilcated! And so C! I should take the tutorial, but that would take time away from the momentum I've got going already. I'm writing Pascal mainly, should I start a Pascal-CodeGen? Or C-CodeGen? (am missing experience!) Or assembler-CodeGen? (even less experience!)

And then about linking. I've started with look-ups of symbols on the fly. Just as a reflex, looked like the right thing to do. But now I don't have an opening to start constructing a linker with what I've got. Unless I re-do my AST storage for easy merging...

I guess I'll let it all simmer for a while and see what turns up.
