The first time I heard about "REPL" I thought: what's that? Is it something to do with test driven development where you add a test that reproduces the bug so you can deterministically ascertain that the fix does indeed fix the issue, and that later you won't introduce a regression to cause the same defect again?

No. [A quick query of a search engine later](http://ddg.gg/REPL) I learn it stands for 'read-eval-print loop'. Ofcourse I've had opened the developer tools before and entered loose bits of script to check how script in a page behaved, but as a lot of other things I was blisfully oblivious of the exact name for that concept.

Then I remembered something from way (way!) back: GW-BASIC. That must have been a REPL if ever there was one. Or perhaps it was just an interpreter with the coding and environment mixed into eachother. But still, you type and it would do. You would use this side-effect where you prefix a command with a number, that it would store in memory to run later when you fire a 'run' command. (boo Goto, yeay Gosub!)

Back to present time, where we spend quite some time expressing elaborate data-structures, perhaps more than writing imperative code. In the several _modern_ languages I have come across, there's clearly a divide between those that accept declarations of types and structures between imperative code and those that don't. If you don't see what I mean, it's just that you can't have typedef with in {} in C, or record between begin/end in Pascal, but any JSON object in other EcmaScript works just fine, and there's [a certain family of languages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lisp_%28programming_language%29) where all code is written just as a complex data-structure. It might not be really important for a REPL, but it determines wither you get _full_ freedom in the REPL or not, since by definition it would only allow you to write imperative code.

So to the question at hand: Does strato need a REPL? Do I think strato needs a REPL? No. I wanted to make a compiled language from the start, avoid having any contamination between parsing-time and run-time like some older languages had. There's the somewhat related questions about meta-programming and 'immediate' debug expressions, but those can get handled separate from a REPL. A REPL would be nice for demonstration or education, but it would still be based on an environment where you provice any declarations it should work with. I'm not planning to have a REPL in the primary interpreter, but since it's open source, I would very warmly welcome if someone decides to create one.