Drats! What to do now?! Or: About local variables in a language that doesn't exist (yet).

One upon a day I thought, what would it be like to code in a language that doesn't has reserved words. Would it be at all possible? Would it be readable enough, pleasant enough to work with?

One upon another day a great number of days later, the idea ripened enough and I started writing: first a lexer/tokenizer, a parser, then an AST storage scheme. (I decided to go with a 'big tree' with just 8 32-bit integers per node: Parent, Next, Name, NodeType and the rest depending on this node type.) I started looking into LLVM and other open-source compilers, but couldn't decide how to handle this code-gen thing best, so started an interpreter first.

No reserved words, no "begin"/"end" so the curly braces we're seeing everywhere across the TIOBE index top 10 will do fine. No "var", but I was wanting to try and have the local variables get defined as you go, perhaps taking from the first assignment if nothing is specified (like C11's "auto"). No "if" or "for" either, but that's another story. So have a look at this:

	test //every file starts with a namespace name
	<<<shell //import the shell module, we'll use Shell.write below
	{ //every file has none,one or two code blocks at the end (initialization/finalization)
		x:=3; //assign some value, I decided to use ":=" and "==", to be sure to eradicate shoot-in-the-foot mistakes
		Shell.write(x:string); //typing is painfully strict (like I heard that Go is) so cast to string for the write
	}

It's still straight-forward to glance over and figure out what it's supposed to do. _x_ is not declared before, but by using it, it's assumable you need it, the type is taken from the constant literal "3". Objects? The über-base-object "object" needs to be defined, but that's another story. For now all you need to know is that it requires an extra import:

	test
	<<<oo //object orientation
	myclass:object={ //inherit from 'object'
		field1:number; //number is the current-system-word-size integer
	}
	//methods are declared outside of the object, the object block is for the data definition only.
	myclass(){ //a constructor
		field1:=3; //default value
	} //inherited constructor gets called for you (if you don't call @@@ yourself)
	myclass.test(x:number):number{ //a method
		??:=field1+x; //?? is "result"
	}
	<<<shell
	{
		instance1:=myclass();
		Shell.write(instance1.test(5):string);
	}

And here comes my current quip: in methods you can use local variables, but if later a field by the same name gets added, at the next compile it will be used instead of the local variable. Just as an example, the variable "i" is typically used as iterator in loops, but if you add a global "i:number", _bam!_ all loops gain an external dependency and the chances of optimizing some by replacing _i_ with a register vanishes, apart from the nightmare that would take place in a threaded scenario.

So I'll guess I'll fashion the syntax to have some kind of declaration or indication that it's really a local variable you want. But what? In SmallTalk, if I recall correctly, there was a bit enclosed in pipes up front to declare what you'll use locally. In Pascal there's var. C requires you to define them with type first. I want something concise, so I might use a prefix ":". Sounds strange, but if you know what it's for, it's not heavy on the code. Let me know what you think.

