# Maybe tuples

I've left this project for a while, tend to some other things. But I _may_ be picking it up again. In the mean time I've been trying to build a LLVM dll that exposes the plain C API, but there's still a gap to cover to connect what I've got with that. In theory it's just a kind of _codegen,_ but I'm hatching a few more idea's to make happen first.

One is to abandon a fixed number of fields per node and use node indexes, but switch to plain pointers to variable length node types. This is coming along nicely. It's an intensive change, but it boils down to porting the current code.

Another idea is to first introduce tuples: plain syntax like `(x,y,z)` that automagically resolves to a _value_ of a type for all intent and purpose equal to a record/structure with the same number and order of fields of the same types. Making that possible will take some work, especially the niceties that emerge with assignment and comparison, but there's more. A next step would be to replace the dynamic of having `(` after something turning into a function call, with having a tuple after something turn into a function call, treating comparing the provided arguments with the signature's argument list as just another tuple (type) comparison.

But that's just an idea for now. First I will probably see the revised AST node storage through first. And do something with dependencies, and have separate stored AST trees depend on eachother (in preparation for something like linking and external symbols, which I found out thank to LLVM I will probably better not try to do without...) and limited visibility (like Pascal's interface/implementation) and perhaps a part of the runtime in strato already. Perhaps. Give I can make some time available.
