# Maybe linking

It looks like I've got the variable number of words per node working. I was searching for a really concise syntax, but I guess I'll have to settle with the `Sphere.n(NodeIndex,NodeField)^` index. I chose to return a pointer, just to be able to use a single call for retrievals and updates.

All this time it's been bugging me that it's starting to look like the linking-step is really inevitable. Especially if you want to bridge into the existing C/C++-world out there. There's an adagio that dictates:

> If _x_ developers work on a compiler, it will have a _x+1_ step pipeline for the compile process.

(or something like that). Being the only one trying to crank out a new language out of thin air, I may end up with a 2-step process, and since I'm planning on finding a way to re-use an existing back-end (be it LLVM or anything else really), that sounds about right.

I've already discovered that by doing it all in a single parse-go-through (I've _streamlined_ the tokenizer also now, so that the parser can just _request_ the next token, and only then it advances through the original source-file in memory.) I get this strange, but nice, collusion of resolved type data right there and then evaluating operands and operators. For example it enables the `&`-operator to have a higher priority with operating on booleans, then the lower priority they should get when operating bitwise on integers... (C solved this by having a separate set of `&&` and `||` operators for boolean operations...) For now I guess I want to keep this. There may be evil forces out there that want to force it out, but what I consider of greater value is that in the end the parser succeeds at getting to the same thing as us plain humans guessing of a bit of code what it's supposed to do. For example `x&1==0 & y&1==0` checks wether both `x` and `y` are even.

As it currently stands, I still got this _Strato-sphere_ that absorbs all and holds _everything_ for a single project, including the runtime fixed types and calls. So the next step is split this into _independent_ chunks. At least the _system default_ chunk. For the others, I'm thinking about building a dependency tree, on the one side to use this to prevent circular dependencies, on the other side to have an entire branch re-process as soon as a change in a source-file is detected. Just re-using already created chunks for the files that haven't changed. I'm not sure linking will figure into this, or if I'll still be able to _look-up_ things as I go, but to get things rolling I've just thought I may just use `$` as a prefix for _anything_ and don't do type-checking on an argument list that follows, just to skip to finally starting some kind of code-gen using either an existing compiler or LLVM...

But first... I don't like all the specifics in the interpreter for binary operators, assignments and casts. There's a bare minimum there now (just what's needed to get the first three Project Euler assignments to work, at least my attempt at them in Strato) but I've grown to think it should get resolved over the operand types, just as plain calls and properties. It may slow down the interpreter even more, but it's definitely what's needed when I finally get to build something that _generates other code_ such as LLVM IR...
