# A new year, a new idea

Happy new year. I'm getting old. The years of unabashedly tinkering away at something in the virtual world behind screen and keyboard — for work and profit by day, for fun and self-education by night — may be over for me. I already firmly reduced the time going into private pet projects for some years now, but days like the holidays season, no longer offer ample time to tackle some harder problems as I now find myself catching up on missing sleep and family interaction.

Given this, even separated from a connection to the digital world, the mind of the creator churns on. Most of the time on the same things, with slight changes. Based on years of programming in languages of the Simula-family, and the few delightful hours of watching [6.001](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Op3QLzMgSY&list=PLE18841CABEA24090) (and perhaps even more importantly the perhaps even more delightful [6.004](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9DWlqtsNGV0&list=PLMF2PpA06Sb2CcgshzLYsZJcevBZ-ZNt3)), I finally took the decision to start work on this old idea of working out of it's at all possible to have a Simula-family* language _without reserved words_.

(*: I've started to explicitly state the pedigree here because there are of course things like [APL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/APL_(programming_language) and other operator-only languages; LISP-family language technically use _keywords_ (and have no operators) and languages like Smalltalk use _messages_.)

The main idea playing around in my head this holiday season was tuples. More specifically the comma operator `,`. I haven't had the pleasure of doing much work in a language that does have some kind of support for tuples, but based on the convention that it in fact comprises a set of values of different types consecutively stored in memory, it somewhat resembles a record/struct with just as many fields of the respective types, but the fields are unnamed. Some languages use the array-index-syntax to access separate members of a tuple, but from what I've seen in examples, tuples tend to get used my with automatic decomposition on assignment: `(a,b):=(123,"x");`. Maybe just as well as you'll definitely need them to embed tuples into tuples.

In the spirit of removing the superfluous, even up to and perhaps beyond a painful level (remember, just like the reserved words we chucked out the window from the get go) I really have to question the use of parentheses `()` in tuple construction. If you consider the comma `,` specifically as _the tuple constructor_, enclosing parentheses are not required. They don't hurt either, since they're something of a purely mathematical construct (affecting operator priority), and result in the same value (`a,b=(a,b)`).

Does this conflict with other uses of the comma? The parser where it currently stands only uses comma in argument lists and for declaring multiple variables to the same type. One exception I can think of is [in C](http://blog.codeisc.com/2017/12/26/cpp-comma-operator-introduction.html) where it just guarantees evaluation, but results in just the last value. I haven't worked on this, but I guess building a tuple may be roughly similar to assembling an argument list. So I'm entertaining the idea of changing the syntax accordingly: a label followed by a open parenthesis `(` followed by _any value_ followed by a closing parenthesis `)` will be resolved to a function call, where a value of a tuple type will get mapped onto the arguments of the function called. If you really want to pass a tuple _into_ the function as-is you may have to double the parentheses `x((a,b));`, _unless_ I cater for this in the function call resolution and have it search once more for functions that accept the tuple-type when no functions are found with arguments of the respective types of the tuple...

But first the tuple construction thing. And carefully deliberating where to put comma on the operator precedence list...
