## New idea's
Oh my, there's been so much time since I've been able to put a decent amount of time into this project, but still there's all kinds of idea's coming to me about what I could do with it.

Since I've been out of the source code, it will probably take me some time to read again the sections I forgot. And understand them again, though I may already have dreamed about another way of doing them.

For example, one idea is to have the operator `,` pretty high op the priority chain, and have it be a _tuple generator_. Thus extend the 'type system' (I hate that term) with tuples that are _zero_ or more types stored adjacently in memory. Much like structs/records really, but without named members, and you'll need some way of indexing into them to access the members, or use _destructuring assignment_. But none of that is there yet. If it were, I would use _that_ to have the argument list build up in a function call. So something like `f(x,y,z)` would search the declarations/overloads/signatures/... of `f` for a set of arguments of the same types as `x,y,z`...

Since these idea's are so profound, I might even skip altogether working myself through what I had already, and re-do an entire new section.

Take the binary storage of the abstract syntax tree for example. To gain speed, especially in loading and storing, I thought of using big arrays, or just blocks of memory really, and indexing into them. When you're talking file formats, you want some kind of method to provide some backwards compatibility, if any, so that's in there, but it all comes to sit in the way and you'll find you'll working around things most of the time just because you want them there.

So today's idea is to re-do storage again, but take things one level deeper. Instead of each node having a node-type (and having its data fit in a fixed record length, or a length encoded into the node-type-indentifier), have really untyped nodes with variable length, and a variable number of attributes. I've noticed in creating xsView it's somewhat unhandy that not everything is cleanly pointing back to its parent, and you need to handle each node type spefically. So by having a variable set of properties, I have a clean way of putting in attributes and decorators later, which I wasn't sure how to do using the current `rItem.r` and `rItem.v` method's as I got them now...

But that's just an idea for now. As immaterial as the guess as to when I'll be able to put in a few more hours into this again...