# Idea: inline code blocks with arguments

I'm not sure if I have written about it here, but it's an idea and I need to to write it down before I try to make it work. Here goes.

A compiled language is all about _describing_ the logic into code that needs to get converted into machine instructions and stored at a certain memory address, so it can execute. There's a lot more to it since the same code needs to get persisted to a file so the operating system can load it later to get it to execute. What I'm trying to get to is the fact that code that looks like this:

    identifier (arguments) {logic}

ultimately results in the instructions for _`logic`_ in memory at an address itself stored under _`identifier`_, and _`arguments`_ dictating what values need to be prepared in registers or on the stack for the sub-routine to work with.

I had this in the parser up till now in roughly the same order:

* ah here's an unknown identifier...
* followed by `(` so expected next is a list of arguments
* closed off by `)`, optionally now `:`and a result type
* and now if there's `;` a _signature_ was declared, which may be needed to define the type of function pointers, or to do a forward-declare if the body of the function is declared later (in a private section?)
* or if there's `{` we start the code-block for this function, and switch from the declarative parser to the imperative parser.

So here's the idea: What if I switched it around a bit. What if `(` anywhere in declarative syntax would start an argument list, optionally followed by a code-block with `{`, that would result in the hypothetical code-address in memory (or a place-holder pointer where the code might end up in the ultimate binary file) and it's that that gets assigned to the identifier that precedes it.

Remember, I'm thinking about using a plain `:` in imperative syntax to enable you to _'switch'_ to declarative syntax to declare extra stuff inline in your imperative logic, so just like in ECMAScript you could either write:

    function x(){something;}
    const x=function(){something;}

in Strato you could have something like

    {
      :supersum= :(a:int,b:int):int{a+b+2};
      Shell.print(supersum(5):string);
    }

and the type of `supersum` would be the signature `(a:int,b:int):int`.

This could also come in handy with getter and setter properties, but I need to think about what that syntax could look like a but more. It's where a 'member variable' of an object/class is implemented under the hood with two dedicated methods (or only one with a read-only property) that have 'opposite' signatures: `():propertytype` for getter and `(propertytype)` for setter, optionally with indexing arguments: `(indexargs):propertytype` and `(indexargs,propertytype)`.

What a _plain_ variable has and a property doesn't, is a _clean_ way to obtain a memory adress, for example for dereferencing, or how _plain_ assignment really works: it dereferences the left side to know where to put the value it gets from the right side. It might look like a clever idea to extend property syntax to provide a third method that offers a pointer type for the property `(indexargs):^propertytype`, but I'd rather have a closer look at Rust and how their ownership model precisely works, as it's presumably designed to prevent the usual errors you get when you fling pointers and dereferencing around all over the place.

A well designed languages prevents you from writing egregious errors, so if you end up in a situation where you think about dereferencing a property, you'll better think long and hard about redesigning that bit of the interface, so it can provide you the neccessary access to the data you need, in a clean, dependable and secure manner.